WGU Certificate: Data Analytics Fundamentals
Description:
Recipients of the Data Analytics Fundamentals Certificate from Western Governors University have demonstrated skills in the use of data analytics tools to conduct exploratory data analysis, regression, data mining using supervised models, and reporting. Use of modern technologies within these disciplines are also included.Recipients of the Data Analytics Fundamentals Certificate from Western Governors University have demonstrated skills in the use of data analytics tools to conduct exploratory data analysis, regression, data mining using supervised models, and reporting. Use of modern technologies within these disciplines are also included.

Credential Detail
Recipients of WGU’s Data Analytics Fundamentals Certificate have demonstrated competence in the following areas via rigorous assessment activities completed through Western Governors University:

Exploratory Data Analysis
The learner interprets central tendency, correlations, and variation to inform organizational decisions.
The learner conducts parametric hypothesis testing.
Predictive Modeling
The learner employs logistic regression algorithms in describing phenomena.
The learner employs multiple regression algorithms with categorical and numerical predictors in describing phenomena.
The learner makes assertions based on regression modeling.
Data Mining I
The learner applies observations to appropriate classes and categories using classification models.
The learner implements prediction data mining models to find hard-to-spot relationships among variables.
The learner evaluates data mining model performance for precision, accuracy, and model comparison.
Representation and Reporting
The learner communicates data insights to technical and nontechnical audiences.
The learner creates data representations to offer insight into an organizational problem.
The learner designs interactive dashboards to support executive decision-making.
Competency Demonstration Highlights
Recipients of this credential complete the following tasks and deliverables as part of their assessment activities:

Identifies distribution functions for continuous and categorical variables.
Uses statistical techniques to perform hypothesis testing on continuous and categorical data.
Selects and justifies a particular regression modeling approach.
Creates a regression model using programmatic approaches.
Uses a regression model to answer a specific business question.
Creates a supervised machine learning model using programmatic approaches.
Selects and justifies a particular supervised machine learning model to address a business question.
Trains a supervised machine learning model using training and validation data sets.
Adjusts data presentation to fit a specific audience.
Creates data reports to identify actionable insights.
Creates dashboards to present analytics results to stakeholders.
WGU Accreditation
WGU is regionally accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities. The WGU Teachers College is granted accreditation at the initial-licensure level from the Council for the Accreditation of Educator Preparation (CAEP). WGU nursing degree programs are accredited by the Commission for Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE). The Health Informatics program is accredited by the Commission of Accreditation for Health Informatics and Information Management Education (CAHIIM). The WGU Business College is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Business Schools and Programs (ACBSP).
